[Music]
Bloomberg Audio Studios podcasts, radio,
news.
[Music]
>> Hello and welcome to another episode of
the OddLotss podcast. I'm Joe
Weisenthal.
>> And I'm Tracy Aloway. Tracy, I love
doing the podcast, but I'm kind of
thinking about becoming a PhD level a AI
researcher. If I do a career pivot, it
seems something I'm considering place to
be.
>> Have you seen Have you seen like the
salaries supposedly? I still don't
actually believe them, but have you seen
like the salaries and comp packages that
supposedly Meta and a few others are
paying for top
>> AI? Some of the headlines. I have also
learned a bunch of new words like
exploding offer and aqua hire. And I
always thought exploding offer sounds
dangerous. What you want is an explosive
offer that you can't turn down.
>> But I take it the exploding hire is like
one that lasts like 5 minutes.
>> Yeah. So you have to make a decision
right away and the company that you're
currently working for can't counter
offer.
>> So I read these headlines about some
engineer or something getting paid 100
million or 250 million. I actually
literally don't believe them. Like I
actually literally think that's fake
news.
>> Really? No, but I kind of
>> I just think it's probably made up of
like all this weird equity structure
>> comp, but I'm sure it's not all up
front. Anyway, we sort of seem to be in
a moment and it's actually not just AI,
I would say uh journalism, finance, etc.
where it's like the sportsification of a
lot of different industries, individual
talent, the demand for individual
superstars on anything doing very well.
I have a bunch of questions when it
comes specifically to AI, such as what
makes an AI talent because I assume if
you're Mark Zuckerberg and you're trying
to assemble your AI dream team or
something. Okay, sure you have like a
level of technical insight and maybe you
hear people talking about, oh, this one
guy is fantastic,
>> but I assume it's not like you can look
at their like individual levels of code
and you can't see what they're doing on
like a daily basis. I don't know.
>> I don't know either. I don't know
anything about this stuff, but I'm
really excited to say we do have the
perfect guests, a couple of guys who are
right in the middle of all of this and
also who have sort of been ahead of the
curve in terms of this, like I said, the
sportsification of the industry. We're
going to be speaking with uh John Kugan
and Jordy Hayes. They are the co-hosts
of TBPN. It's a live show podcast. It's
become one of my favorite new media
properties. it exists. And I'm really
excited we have them both in the studio
here with us today. So, John and Jordy,
thank you so much for uh coming on.
>> Thanks for having us.
>> We're so excited to be here.
>> I love by the way you guys like make
these like baseball cards every time.
So, it's so clever. For those who are
not paying attention, why don't you sort
of give the highlevel overview of like
what you see happening in this like
crazy talent war for people who don't
know about this? what is actually going
on this this talent war for for people
who know how to do AI or train a model
or whatever it is.
>> Yeah, the league or the mag seven the
serious teams are all worth over a
trillion dollars. Tesla's in a different
kind of boat some days, but pretty much
there's mult there's seven trillion plus
dollar companies now. So there is an
inordinate amount of money to flow
around. And if you think about
investing.1%
of your market cap to make your business
potentially 5% better, that's a trade
you take all day. The number is
staggering, but now you're seeing
companies pay hundreds of millions of
dollars. I think you mentioned that, you
know, there's a lot of debate over
whether that was fake news or not. They
seem like they are very real offers and
they are indeed happening. And there's a
whole bunch of different ways that you
can kind of underwrite that, but we
could start with going through just a
little bit of the history here of how we
got into this place or what these AI
researchers are actually doing. I'm
happy to kind of answer any any
question.
>> Okay. Well, why don't we start with the
baseball analogy then? If I was
collecting AI engineer cards,
>> who's the most valuable? Like who do I
actually want to have? And then
secondly, what are the stats that are
printed? So, so, so taking a little bit
of a step back, talking about kind of
the sportsification of of tech and
business, which has been a huge catalyst
for our show. I think we realized early
on people would call TVPN the sports
center for tech or some analogy like
that. We were a little bit, it sounded
cool. We didn't really know what that
meant. John and I don't watch sports at
all from for for basically for basically
like two decades now. Uh I'm in my late
20s, John mid30s. And and and we've
followed tech in business the way that
our college friends follow sports. So
the com in sports, you have players,
personalities, coaches, managers,
leagues, teams, and and people obsess
over all the details. I never fully
understood that. I mean, I I understood
kind of the draw, but it just was never
for me. whereas John and I would pick up
the newspaper as teenagers and we were
tracking the uh the talent, the CEOs,
the companies, the markets, the
industries and it's just something that
we obsessed over and so this year has
been amazing as these AI researchers
have been getting these sort of
superstar max contracts, which is what
we would call them. We would start
joking on the show and be like, "Look,
this guy just went over to Meta. It's
probably, you know, four-year contract,
you know, one-year cliff." And it just
got more and more and more real as the
kind of demand for world-class AI
researchers completely outstripped the
supply. And we actually put out
something a couple days ago called the
Metis list. And John can go a little bit
more into into the name behind that. It
was kind of our take on the Midas list
which was we built a list of top roughly
a hundred AI researchers and rank them
on a bunch of different factors. And so
when you talk about what goes into what
makes a great, you know, AI researcher,
there's a bunch of different factors.
One that you can get right into the
numbers with is like citations. So if
somebody's a researcher, they've been
publishing, you know, studies, papers,
etc. for quite a while at this point.
And you can just see quantitatively what
their contributions have been to the
industry. And so that's like a good
starting point to understand. And
historically, Elon even said earlier
this week, honestly, it was like an hour
after we posted the medicine list,
probably unrelated, but who knows? He's
basically saying that AI researchers and
a and engineers, we're just going to
call them engineers now. And that's
makes a lot of sense for someone like
Elon to do as somebody who's always been
you know very engineering focused less
focused on you know entirely net new
innovation more so how do we make the
best possible versions of products that
exist and it's not to say that he hasn't
innovated in a bunch of different ways
but it is a really wild moment in time
and it's been a fun moment because
historically you hear about this Midas
list investor you making $2 billion of
carry on some deal or this founder, you
know, IPOing. Today we have, you know,
the Figma IPO and uh, you know, there's
bunch of people that are going to make
billions of dollars there,
>> but you don't hear about the hundth
engineer that was hired making
>> a$und00 million signing bonus. And all
of this makes a ton of sense in in the
context of what John said because you
look Meta's up, I checked this morning,
$195 billion new uh market cap and think
about how many hundred million dollar
signing bonuses you can make against
that kind of market cap.
>> Should we answer your question about who
the
>> who's the best I want to have in my
collection?
>> The uh who is the white whale from the
novel?
Don't say anything about whales or whale
products or hunting large
>> tired tired of me hearing about perhaps
he's the white whale perhaps he's the
Michael Jordan of AI researcher but
Ilaskver is really he's at the top of
our list for a variety of reasons and he
if you're if you're not familiar with
Ilia Sitzkver he is an AI researcher who
was at openai for a long time and
there's a few different ways to
characterize him he is both coming up
with new ways is to implement AI
algorithms the way you train the model
but he's also very good at for a long
time identifying which the shortest path
in the tech tree so there are there are
branches of choices that you need to
make as you develop the new AI models
and he was very early at while he was at
openai he identified that the
transformer paper from Google he didn't
invent that it was at Google but the
transformer technology was extremely
important and that it had the ability to
do remarkable things when scaled up
massively. And so he was the driving
force between kind of identifying the
transformer as a as the correct path.
Now we look back on attention is all you
need, which is the name of the paper
that defines the architecture that is
used in these modern large language
models that you use when you're in chat.
There were 25 other potential paths that
we could have gone down. He you know the
story goes is that he really identified
that and said let's go really really
hard on that.
>> So he can sort of identify the
innovation what's new and then also
identify the most efficient path to
actually execute on.
>> Yes. And if you're familiar with what
the more the more modern so the first
arc of LLMs and these chat bots scaling
up were really this pick the transformer
paper understand that that's the correct
architecture and then scale it up really
really big. So you need to be able to
not just write the code to implement
that that particular algorithm. You need
to marshall the capital to say we're
going really really big and we're going
to build the big data center. We're
going to spend a lot of money but it's
going to be worth it because we
understand the trade-offs here.
>> Then the second kind of innovation or
correct call he had was during the Sam
Alman ouster and return he was working
on a project that was cenamed.
>> And there was a lot of speculation about
what Qstar was. Was it the secret
superintendent?
>> Everybody was saying, "What did I see?"
>> Yes. Yeah. Because he he was going back
and forth in support of Sam Alman and
then leaving and then and then it was
back and forth and there was a lot of
drama there.
>> Always keep them guessing.
>> Always keep them guessing for sure. And
so there was there was a lot of rumors
but what it wound up being was just
reasoning which is now what is available
in uh if you use any of the O3 models in
Chat GPT or you use DeepSseek R1. And
it's it goes by a number of different
names. the project was rebranded
strawberry and then the oer and um you
can think about this as the test time
inference is the other buzzword but
basically the LLM you're using the same
foundation model but you're running it a
ton more to come up with a bunch of
potential answers to questions and then
narrowing that down and essentially
applying what's called reinforcement
learning to the transformer architecture
and the pre-training that's happening
and so he was very critical in leading
that project and so that's allowed him
to eventually once he left OpenAI go
start a new company called Safe Super
Intelligence SSI and he's gotten that
company to what a $30 billion valuation
billion $32 billion valuation
>> which ties into the talent war because
uh I think it's I don't know that it's
been officially announced yet but people
are expecting uh Daniel Gross to join
Meta at
>> who was the CEO and co-founder of that
company SSI and so back to your back to
the white question
>> think about the dynamic here
>> if you guys get together. They start a
company. Within a year, it's worth $32
billion.
>> Yeah.
>> And one of the people on that team
decides to actually leave and go join
Meta. It sounds insane. Probably leaving
billions of dollars on the table. But
the you can kind of trace the this
talent war actually back to the OpenAI
founding team. When you think about all
the different players, right? You have
Meera Marotti who's now uh with Thinking
Machine. She was the CTO of OpenAI. You
have Ilia Sutzkver with SSI. you have
Elon with XAI and not to mention you
have these sort of hyperscalers who are
also competing for the same talent. So
yeah, that that's really kind of the the
origin story in the Genesis and it's
been amazing to see OpenAI's progress
despite, you know, the the recent
reporting is around, you know, losing a
bunch of top researchers, which is real,
but it wasn't that long ago that they
lost like two very very very key senior
execs in Ilia and uh Mera.
[Music]
So, a few stats. We're recording this,
by the way, July 31st. Meta came out
with uh earnings last night. The stock
is up like 10%. It's up like 150 billion
more dollars. The other thing is, and I
think this gets ties into the uh logic
behind the comp, so they're going to
spend like something like another 70
billion on capex and stuff like that.
So, we know these are incredibly
computationally intensive things.
They're electricity intensive things.
You mentioned paper citations, but also
actually having the experience of one of
these runs. And it does seem very highly
intuitive to me that if you've done it
before and if you could even cut down
the cost of a training run or set up a
big computer rack for
>> you can pay for very quickly 5% less,
right?
>> This exa this is% what just happened
instantly pay then you instantly pay for
your salary. I could say because and
this is different from the B2B SAS era,
right? Because you can there's these
huge capeex costs. If you can just
marginally improve the efficiency of
that, that pays that 100 million seller
salary.
>> Yeah. And and so this this literally
just happened right before uh Mark
Zuckerberg went on the talent
acquisition spree that he's been on for
the last few months. Meta's main AI
model is called Llama and they've
released a series of versions of that
model and Llama 4 was the latest and
greatest and it didn't go very well and
the rumors about why it kind of failed
to deliver on expectations was that they
kind of went down the wrong path in the
tech tree and they focused a little bit
too much on pre-training scale insanely
costly. So, so they've released a part
of Llama 4, but they have yet to release
Llama 4 behemoth, which is their biggest
model, the most the most aggressive, and
they had just like little details in the
implementation, little choices of how
you chunk the attention in the
transformer model. You know, we're
operating at this level of abstraction
up here talking about, you know, it's
it's a prediction model and then we talk
about transformers a little bit. There
are sub algorithms within these systems
that you make the wrong decision and you
could get a vastly different outcome.
>> Your electricity bill goes up by 100
million.
>> Exactly. So all of that money that was
spent on that electricity and that and
that build out of course Meta can absorb
that. But when you think about the the
cost of getting it correct
>> one thing is is a lot of these projects
will be energy constrained too. So
efficiency is going to matter a lot. It
hasn't been the core focus today. If you
talk to anybody at the big labs, they
are focused on maxing out intelligence
at the cost of efficiency because they
know they can, you know, you want to be
on the bleeding edge. You want to have
the smartest model. You want to be, you
know, there's debates around which
benchmarks actually matter, how
important AI benchmarks really are, but
energy is going to, you know, a lot of
people are saying Zuck won't even be
able to spend as much as he wants to
spend on data center development purely
because of the energy constraint.
>> Yeah. M can you talk a little bit about
what happened with Wind Surf cuz this is
this is the one that seems to have like
captured everyone's attention in part
because there was the drama of it almost
seemed like it came out of like a
Silicon Valley um the show script or
something where all the employees were
gathering expecting to hear that they
were going to be bought by Open AI and
then they find out that actually their
CTO has just been bought by someone else
completely different and they're sort of
left in the
>> CEO. Oh, was it the CEO? top
>> CEO and top 50. Well, how about I give
some prehistory on acquires and you can
take take us through that actual
weekend. So, there has been a trend of
sort of these zombie aqua hires.
Everyone has different names for this,
but effectively when a very large
company, usually a hyperscaler, wants to
go and acquire a company that has AI
talent, they used to just buy the whole
company. And this was part of the
Silicon Valley social contract that even
if I am in operations or sales or
finance or HR, if I join a hot startup
and it gets acquired, I'm coming along
for the ride
>> and I get the job at Google at least for
a little bit and then yeah, if I
underperform Google or Meta or Amazon,
they might lay me off. But even if I'm
somewhat redundant, I'm coming along for
the ride and I'm cashing out my shares.
And these the reason that you go and
take the risk and take the little bit of
the rougher ride that is a startup. You
don't get as many amenities, but you get
the lottery tickets in the form of stock
options that hopefully pay out. But
there's a big question about how much of
this is the acquirer just not wanting to
deal with the dduplication of the back
office. There's also the question of the
FTC. A lot of the FTC rulings have made
it much harder to get these these big
acquisitions across the finish line. And
even if they even if the FDC does
approve, they can often hold it up for
six months. And we're in a race where if
you deliver the best model today, you're
going to make more money. You're going
to be the hot company. You're going to
acquire. It's all this big snowball. So
companies this started with there were a
few but character AI was the big one
with Nome Shazir who was
>> and very very interesting situation
where so Gnome wanted to go back to
Google which made sense. Google wanted
him there as well.
>> He's one of the greatest AI researchers
of all time.
>> Yes. And so having him go back there
made a lot of sense. I think he had
built this platform. He built like the
first atscale AI companionship platform.
If you look at Character AI's site
traffic today, I mean, it's it's one of
the largest sites on the internet still,
which is wild. But I think he realized,
I want to work on AI research. I don't
want to work on AI girlfriends,
boyfriends, that that kind of thing. And
as part of that deal, Character AI
effectively became entirely
employeeowned.
And they had a really strong balance
sheet. They had a crazy amount of users.
they weren't monetizing maybe that well
yet. But I think a lot of the employees
in that situation were like this is
pretty cool. We're basically running a
co-op where we all own a lot of this
company. We don't have investors. We
don't have the same kind of pressure to
perform. And that space is competitive,
right? You even Elon is is competing
there now. ChatGpt gets used as a
companion, but not competitive like
codegen. And so that was the dynamic
here that was insane because Google
clearly cares about code generation.
They see Anthropic adding they went
from$1 to4 billion dollars in uh run
rate this year. They're they're pacing
to be somewhere around 10 at the end of
the year. And so that's a Googleiz
market, right? Google's going to
ultimately care about codegen. So it
made sense for them to say, hey, let's
get, you know, 50 more hyper talented
engineers. This is winter we're talking
about.
>> The issue though is if you didn't get
brought over to the Google ship, you
were on what I what I was calling a
ghost ship. John, everyone who was pro
the strategy, they would call it the
remain coordin
but but imagine you're at a company and
and the dynamic with windsurf was
fascinating because the company if you
had joined in August of last year
windsurf you could have the product
hadn't launched yet. So you could have
worked and worked up to the product
launch, launched it, seen this meteoric
growth. The last reported number they
had was some something like 80 million
of ARR. You have a term sheet to get
acquired from OpenAI for $3 billion.
And that falls through and then all
these employees are looking around and
they're like, "Wait, I didn't even hit
my I haven't even hit my one-year cliff
yet. I don't actually have a right to I
mean I they might technically own shares
or or options depending on how it was
structured but they as I'm sure everyone
here knows you often times like some
sometimes founders would would try to
accelerate their employees get them
compensated as part of a transaction
like that but there's not necessarily a
contractual right to do that and it's
part of a negotiation and so in this
case you have this team that's
effectively split up And we were
covering the whole thing live because we
were hearing that, you know, employees
that Friday were like crying and there
was a ton of confusion and chaos and
everybody was learning facts kind of
over that 48 hour period. Luckily, our
friend Scott Woo at Cognition, the
company that ultimately bought the
remain co flew to meet the Windsurf
team, the new CEO Windsurf, and
basically spent the weekend doing this
insane deal. And it ended up being a
great outcome, I think, for everybody
involved. would surf have their like
marketing department in the room or
something when they made the
announcement, the initial announcement
and everyone was like because they were
expecting to be bought by OpenAI, right?
So they're like we're going to film this
for posterity and then it turns out to
be something completely different.
>> Yeah. Yeah. I believe the timeline is
that you know Windsurf launches a year
ago is in a knockout dragout fight with
Curser. Curser is doing very well.
They're also growing to 80 million or so
opening up. Cursor is in the hundreds of
millions of revenue. And so Windsurf was
very clearly the number two player in
the AI IDE market.
>> Yeah. And so Curser is staying
independent, but OpenAI wants to
continue to get a foothold in this
space. So they make an offer that falls
through. The rumor was because Microsoft
would have had IP look through exposure
via the more complex OpenAI structure
>> which is ongoing
>> which is continues to be ongoing. And
then when when Google came through, they
said that they wanted just to buy the
team, leave the remain co because it's
potentially cleaner from an FTC
perspective, but there's a whole bunch
of different reasons and no one really
comments on exactly what happens. But
when these deals happen, this just
happened with Scale AI and Meta, the
CEO, even though there's some sort of
amorphous FTC risk, the the CEO, if
they're going through one of these
zombie acquisitions, does have the
ability to kind of set the team up with
certain expectations and say, "Hey,
we're going to take care of you. Trust
me, you're going to get a check that you
would expect based on your ownership."
So, if you own 01% of the company, you
you would expect that you get X of the
headline number. And yes, it's coming to
you. The weird thing about the wind surf
deal was that that was not messaged. And
so there was there was like this the
zombie ship was more zombified.
>> So like
>> Well, yeah. And and imagine imagine
you're in a you're in a hyper
competitive market where you're
competing with Google and Anthropic and
Cursor and and all these different
players and then you lose your CEO and
your top 50 engineers and they're like,
"Guys, don't worry. You guys have a
strong balance sheet. You guys are going
to do great and we're also going to be
we're also going to be competing with
you at at at Google. But you guys are
going to be fine. Good luck, guys. And
so and great. Thanks. Thanks for the
help.
>> But but this but like okay cognition
came in. It sounds like all the
employees will get something. It's not
the end of the world.
>> Yes. Because there was cash on the
balance sheet that got dividended out.
>> But it didn't have to be that outcome.
And so there's two things here that
strike me. One is again this does not
seem like the B2B SAS era where it's
like if you created the hottest billing
product for dentist offices
>> and that was gathering traction no one
would like just buy the talent that
built that so that's really different
right because the so the I the ability
to take value out via the talent channel
rather than buying the product itself
but then also and I'm just you know the
knock-on effects okay fine the wind surf
employees did fine but going forward
there's no guarantee that they could
have and so I'm wondering from either a
VC perspective or a future employees
perspective, how this is going to change
the sort of calculation that anyone
makes when participating in a new AI
startup. The fact that the enterprise
may not be where the value actually is.
>> So the first question is like this kind
of is the example you gave of like
buying the team that built the dentist
B2B SAS because Windinsurf does not
train foundation models and Google is
exceptional in training foundation
models with Gemini and Deepmind. The
deep mind team is is extremely well
staffed on AI researchers and
continually seems to push the frontier
both in qualitative and quantitative
metrics.
>> And if they were weak anywhere, it was
maybe product.
>> Exactly. And so this is the like I don't
want to be like they're just product
people. Um Windsurf has some amazing AI
researchers, some amazing AI engineers,
but what Windinsurf really did, they did
not train a frontier model that was
about to disrupt Gemini. Yeah. Deep
Mind's foundation model, they were going
after, you know, would you use a Google
product? No, you would use Windsurf on
top of Anthropic or or another
foundation model.
>> And ultimately, I I don't I don't think
it's a systemic risk to the social
contract of
>> our industry. And the reason for that is
that when when you see a deal like the
the Google Windsurf deal get done, it
was very concerning. A lot of people
were extremely angry. It ended up being
a good outcome. A lot of employees were
looking around probably concerned about,
you know, is the million dollars of
stock that I've been working for for
years worth anything at all. I think
that was a good question to ask. But I
think there's two things. One is this is
AI is a category and of course it's
touching kind of every category of
venture in the private markets. But
we're not seeing you're not seeing a
defense tech founding team or
engineering group get there's no real
aqua hire value there. the aqua hires
that are getting done in hard techch are
hey you you clearly have good
engineering capabilities we're happy to
have you join the team but there's no
like real premium being placed on that
kind of talent might be able to get a
great comp packages but they're
certainly not getting these sort of
multiund million premiums the other
factor here is like we have a set like
right now if you are one of the top 100
AI researchers you could probably get a
hundred million comp package like within
a week if you really wanted it, right?
And there's even people that are at
thinking m you know the reporting from
this week was that and it was kind of
hotly debated but that people at
thinking machines mirror Marott's
company former CTO of open AAI were
turning down these sort of hundred
million multiund million dollar there
was a rumor that somebody had turned
down a billion dollar 5-year contract
and I don't believe that those deals
will be getting done in three years.
Now, I might be wrong and there's going
to be like probably some exceptions, but
the idea that the 30th AI researcher on
your team is going to make more than a
Mag 7 CEO, like that doesn't feel
hyperainable.
Either Tim Cook has to make more money
or research to make less.
>> Tim Cook is looking in existences on
Wall Street where like a top trader, top
deal makers consistently make more than
or will often make more than the CEO.
Citadel.
>> Oh, absolutely. Because they're the ones
that get the money in the door.
>> Yeah.
[Music]
Can you talk a little bit more about I
guess the fungeability of the IP here in
both the practical and legal sense? So,
if I'm a VC or some sort of investor, I
invest in an AI company because I get to
own that technology, that intellectual
property, but then let's say the main
guy walks out the door, gets hired by
Google or whoever. Like, how much of
what he learned at his original firm or
developed is immediately going to be
replicated at Google? I bet
>> almost all of it.
>> Yeah. I guess this is like this is a
long way. That's exactly why they're
paying that much money. This is a long
way to think of saying how many lawsuits
are we going to get after all these aqua
hires.
>> So I think one one way you can look at
some of Zuck's deals are like
unauthorized aqua hires. It's like the
other CEO is not even participating in
the deal. But you know Zuck is able to
come in and be like would I pay if this
if these 10 people were working on a
company independently? Would I pay a
billion dollars to bring them onto my
team? 100%. Okay, let's do the deal.
doesn't matter that you're kind of
piecing it all up from a uh I think
going back to like the kind of Wall
Street example of like a top trader who
maybe is like putting up consistently
incredible returns with some sort of
like differentiated approach. That
person can go and as long as they have
capital at the new company, they're
going to be able I imagine to continue
to just follow that same type of
strategy. I do think that AI and and
large language models are somewhat
different in that you have to look at
what is the the AI product that these
companies are going to sell. How much of
an impact is that individual engineer
researcher going to have? And you know,
it's fairly obvious with OpenAI, they're
a consumer tech company, right? They
sell subscriptions to chat GBT. They
have some other use cases. It's obvious
at companies like Anthropic where
they're in the code generation business.
They don't really have a consumer
business. And at Meta, it's a little bit
less clear right now because the sort of
ongoing product strategy is not entirely
clear yet. The the thing that is obvious
is that if you can make a $20 billion
training run more efficient, then you
pay for yourself pretty quickly.
>> We should just point out the Wall Street
analogy is not perfect, right? Because
if you're a high-f flyier at a Wall
Street firm, either client-f facing or
if you're trading, if you join someone
else, you usually have a non-compete
agreement in one form or another. So,
you can't take all your existing clients
with you. And then B,
>> you're off and on an enforced gardening
leave for a really long time.
>> Oh, yeah. I imagine in the massive race
that is AI at the moment uh there's no
gardening.
>> Also the nature of the intellectual
property I believe is a little bit
different still. I think of this I think
it's a 2012 example from Citadel in
Chicago where a high frequency trader uh
stole some code and they sent and he had
it on his hard drive. You know the
story?
>> Yes. It was really famous when it
happened. He like sent it to himself or
something.
>> Yeah. Yeah. So, so he exfiltrated some
code, some very, you know, definitive
code of how to make money in the market
and get an edge. And they he figured out
that they were on his trail and he threw
his hard drive into the river and they
sent scuba divers into the river and got
it back. I didn't know that.
>> The other the other high-profile SV
example was the guy going from Google
self-driving to Uber.
>> Oh, yes. Yeah. And and and so and so
taking specific code, that's not
happening.
There's probably going to be like one
example of this that pops up, but mostly
it's just you get someone who says, "I
understand that at my previous job, we
scaled up the transformer a little too
far and we didn't focus on reasoning
enough and so we need to shift this
spend to test time inference and it's
almost like you're leaving you're
leaving a company and you're and you're
just you're you're leaving with like a
mindset of of like the right balance of
capex to opex or something. And then
what was the recent Jane Street example
that came out in that lawsuit around was
it the the trading strategy where it
only we we only really all learned what
was happening because there was this
lawsuit over over basically the team
bringing over some type of IP or
methodology.
>> Yeah.
>> Can we talk about like the broader
>> sort of economic world right now because
there's a bunch of other sort of things
going on and things that you talk about
touch on them. Last last thing because I
think it's pretty interesting. So we put
out the medicine list. I think it was
Monday and we immediately had a ton of
inbound from a lot of these researchers
basically like critiquing like the
ranking, right? And the ranking was like
we got we got people that work in AI to
kind of like rank them. We
>> This is the beauty of ranks. You you get
so much sourcing.
>> Amazing. I understand why every firm
puts out market.
>> This is the beauty of ranking. There's
one uh there there was one example that
was interesting where somebody that was
ranked fairly high that I know has
gotten one of these nine figure comp
packages and somebody that worked with
him basically said this person was
kicked off of every team they worked on
and just like effectively like over a
multi-year period like consistently
demoted over and over and over and back
now now like got you know this
incredible
>> can you factor in soft skills into your
rankings? Well, yeah. And and it was it
was more of like a technical ability
thing. It was not even I think soft
skills are getting a little bit uh you
know, they don't they don't
you don't care that LeBron James like
might get a little angry at somebody if
they underperform, right?
>> Yeah. Sorry.
>> No, no, no, no, no. this guy. So this
phenomenon of like superstars like it's
not just it's not just in tech and like
we see it I mentioned in journalism
where you know the sort of like median
reporter job in a newsroom a lot of
that's hollowing out but you have some
people who become insanely well
compensated either because they're
really smart and they write a great
newsletter or they're really
good-looking and they can do
front-facing video etc. or you know like
the four of us you know like can do
something on video or something like
that. you see it in a range of areas and
then like the amount of betting that's
going on which of course adds to this
and so the fact that all of these events
there's some market out there that you
can bet on that and I'm curious like
from your coast you know you're here in
New York but from your coast what does
the world look like in terms of just
like the state of this economy
>> yeah there's something interesting going
on in tech where the idea of a company
going from a hundred billion to a
trillion seemed unfathomable
>> and there's this take that in fact that
was the easiest 10x of all
>> where the hardest 10x was going from
zero to one, from going to zero to a
million dollars and getting these
systems, inventing page rank, and then
once you had Google humming at a hundred
billion dollar market cap, getting to a
trillion, not to, you know, knock at the
work that they did to get that, but but
these the the numbers have just kept
growing and growing at internet scale,
at internet speed. And so the the
leverage that you're getting from an AI
researcher is ever more increasing. And
it just adds 10x every couple years. And
so you're seeing the comp packages
increase that way.
>> You have couple things like the internet
is the greatest distribution engine for
information and digital products and
apps and services ever. And so at least
in venture that just means that
everything is faster now. Even in media
too. If you're if you are somebody's
working at at a at a legacy media
company and they set up a Substack, they
can get a million dollars of ARR on the
first day that they launch. If somebody
is working at a media company and and
really good at a certain type of YouTube
video, they can launch and immediately
the YouTube algorithm will serve that
video to all of their fans within the
first week.
>> And that what that does is it it it just
changes, you know, the power dynamic
between media companies.
>> Leverage come in through financial
markets. If you can lever up or or just
marshall more capital, one idea can
generate billions of dollars in value.
Same thing in technology. But we aren't
seeing it everywhere. I don't think
we're seeing it in hard skills
woodworking like unless you get into
true like art territory. But there is
this interesting question about like
what's up next. And we were kind of
noodling on like there might be a law
firm in the future that's extremely high
leverage in the same sense that you
might have a lawyer who's so good at
what they do and they are so good at
resolving these and and the connections
and everything that they're doing.
They're making billions, but they have a
very very lean team. And so you see a
much a much steeper power law in in law.
And there's a there's a number of other
professional services that are going
through like a transformation with
technology bringing increased leverage
to the profession and that could drive
more of that power outcome in terms of
earnings.
>> Yeah. the the thing, you know, in the
private markets on on the West Coast,
which is the dynamic right now that's
fascinating, is like I feel like a lot
of people have like a little bit of PTSD
from the 2020 to 2022
era where many of the things that in
hindsight were incredible top signals
are like all pop popping up again right
now. And like we like we like track we
track them just for fun. We're not in
the business of like calling calling the
top or anything like that. In in many
ways it feels like you know there's so
many positive indicators but the
interesting dynamic in in venture is
like as as an angel investor I've
invested in probably 65 or so different
companies at the preed to series A stage
and there was a bunch of deals that I
did in 2021 2022 that ultimately like I
paid too much or just like the team
wasn't good enough to execute against
the vision they had. But there was also
just like a handful of deals that I did
that that have been, you know, performed
so well that it doesn't matter that I
did a bunch of silly deals. And so
venture right now is this interesting
kind of dynamic where everybody knows
that it's crazy, right? You have
hundreds of billions of dollars of of
value created in the private markets
that there's a lot of real revenue
growth, but there's also hundreds of
billions of dollars of value tied to
zero revenue, right? And I think that
there's something that we've been
tracking is like this underlying kind of
feeling from people that are maybe under
30 of there's like this meme that's
become very prevalent and I think it
explains a lot of economic activity
today which is young people feel that
they have two years to accumulate
capital to escape the permanent
underclass. And so I think that drives a
lot of investing activity today in that,
you know, you'll see young people on the
timeline saying that like you'd be
stupid not to use leverage, you know,
and they're and they're just like, you
know, they're not a professional
investor in any capacity. Um,
>> don't do it.
>> And you know, any anytime you have
people in venture making public market
stock predictions, we get a little
concerned.
>> Are we going to get AI talent agents?
Not AI agents. We have those already.
But AI talent agents because like
>> we do.
>> So
>> we do they're called venture
capitalists.
>> Oh well this
>> but yes I I
>> this was going to be my last sentence.
So if the money is no longer in you know
I invest in a startup and eventually
they get the exit, they get acquired or
they list or whatever. If the money is
in eventually the guy that started the
startup gets bought by someone like Meta
or whoever,
>> wouldn't I invest my money in that
person versus in the startup itself?
>> Indentured services. Yeah. Yeah. You you
can't quite do that, but there are a ton
of roles that are indexed to these high
performance packages. And yes, there are
people right now in Silicon Valley who
are effectively talent agents who get a
cut of those big packages and they help
negotiate. Just
>> what are they called? Just talent agents
>> called venture capitalists.
>> No, no, no. So, so, so, so you can you
can I if you find if you find a great
researcher and you think that, okay,
maybe they will build a business, but
I'm sure that they are going to be worth
hundreds of millions of dollars a year
and you can just invest in their
company, you will almost certainly see a
good return on that investment even if
the product never gets to scale because
when they get an aqua hire, you will get
a payout. other scouts going to like
Carnegie Melon Carnegie Melon and like
going there and like finding you know
the sophomores who are like
>> oh absolutely absolutely
>> it's now it's now so normalized to
invest in college dropouts that you
actually see people
>> like investing in high school students
>> I'm not kidding about this so the IMO
gold medal is the math olympiad and
there are venture capitalists who will
give calls to every single student that
performs well on the on the math
olympiad and these are high school
students
>> so do they What are these investments
exactly? Like are you're funding their
tuition or
>> No, no, no. It's it's it's I am taking
10 or 20% of of a company of a Delaware
COP most likely that that you will build
something in and who knows where it
goes. Maybe it turns into a great
business. Maybe it turns into aquaire,
but the downside is extremely limited
because there's always this at least
right now there's this aquaire there's
this aqua hire on the table where
>> it used to be
>> but to be clear that is only in AI and
it's only for the the people that that
you would consider to be the top 500 in
their industry to go back cursor wind
surf thing like Instagram was the power
law winner got the billion dollar
acquisition from meta hipeatic was the
second largest photo filtering app did
not get a billion dollar aqua hire from
Google, right? But now we're in the
market where if there's a leading
product with a bunch of AI researchers
over here and they get a multi-billion
dollar acquisition for the product and
the product's working and it's growing
and it is a great business and you buy
it for the value of the business, then
the second best team might get acquired
just for talent, which is a completely
different downside protection.
>> Yeah. Yeah. And there's a lot of talent
acquisitions, traditional aqua hires
where it's only the talent that benefit,
right? In the sense that they get
basically a job offer at the new company
and VCs get some capital back or in some
cases a small amount of money.
>> Um, can I ask a a TBPN question? Um,
this should be like the ultimate
compliment, which is that I got a DM
from some random person. I had never
seen them the other day
>> and he said, um, I can build tbps for X.
So, like that's that stack, that sort of
live thing, which means it's sort of
like it's become like Kleenex or one of
these things where it's like a category.
And where are you going with it? What uh
what are your plans?
>> Well, it's funny. It's it's it's so
funny that people are calling it TBPN
for X because our show, while it's
unique in a variety of ways, looks very
much like traditional tele which is
interesting. And so we can't we can't
take credit for inventing.
>> We like to joke. We invented TV. We
invented media. We invented
>> also been live streaming before. And
like normally it doesn't really I don't
know. It's like why would I watch cable
news on
>> I think the thing that's exciting is
that in the private markets and venture
and tech if you had a podcast there was
one format which was a once a week
interview show. And it was a great
strategy to do that 10 years ago around
the time that you guys
Um, no. And it's still you're going to
stick around forever. You're locked in.
>> But if we if we tried to clone this,
everyone would be like, "Why is that a
knockoff? There's nothing new about
this. Nothing fresh about this. Like,
why why do I want to go on your
knockoff? I just go on the real thing."
>> Yeah.
>> So, so our edge in in launching the show
at the beginning of the year is that
media is not zero sum. Content is not
zero sum. We have a friend that jokes
that he he's so competitive. He wishes
he wishes media was zero sum was truly
zero sum. But our edge early was that we
just took it 10 times more seriously
than anyone else. So everybody that was
creating content for the private markets
was doing it as a part-time gig and we
were happy to compete with a bunch of
people that were part-time.
>> Yeah. You know what? Actually, I was
wondering in 2021 or 2022 that
craziness. Um, someone once reached out
to me
>> and they're like, you know what, you
should like
>> Bitcoin Treasury,
you know, you should go direct. It was
probably the P.
>> No, this but this was the this was the
interesting thing. He said you should go
independent and what you should do is
attach a VC arm to it and that because
of the quality of the guest that you
could get, you would get really act good
access to deal flow. But it seems like
basically
>> it was very uncomfortable to me because
I'm not gonna like highlight startup
founders and say, "Oh, you're the
perfect guest." And it's like because
like I have like 5% equity in them. But
I'm curious about because you mentioned
doing angel the sort of link. TBPN at
some point be like so angsting
platform.
>> Angel investing I look at as as a hobby.
It's not a great financial activity,
right? Locking up capital.
locking up I mean like you can generate
great returns but it's not the most
logical way to invest your time but it's
really fun like we just enjoy supporting
founders early when it's an idea and a
team and it's it's just it it is
genuinely addicting I always joke about
uh people in San Francisco with angel
you know people across the country
sports uh betting addictions San
Francisco you know uh angel investing
addictions are I think uh real but for
us uh for us that was you know as we
started having some success. A lot of
people, they would probably get a
message a day, when's the fund coming?
When's the fund coming? And and that's
been a way to monetize an audience
within tech. If you have an audience, go
raise a $100 million fund. You get the
fee streamers do that.
>> Uh you get a bunch of upside. And we
joke uh because we have the shows every
single day. We go live at 11:00. We have
to eat. We have to
>> work out, prep the show.
>> We have to prep the show. We have to
talk with partners. we have to manage
our team. There's all these different
things. And so, somebody might
immediately think, okay, these guys talk
to six founders and investors a day.
They have this like media property that
like I think everybody in Venture now is
going to see our content like once a
week in some form or another if they're
if they're online. But I joke with them,
I'm like, "So, we're live for three
hours every single day during the middle
of the day. And so if if you think that
we with a show would would effectively
compete at VC is about winning
allocation, right? You can be cool and
and connected and have an audience that
might get you a 100k allocation, but if
you have a $100 million fund, you need
to be putting size into deals. And so I
know that if John and Jordy have a VC
fund and we're competing with these
other guys that have a live show that
they're live for three hours a day and
they have a VC fund, we'd smoke them
because we'd be like, "Okay, while
they're live, I'm going to fly to the
founder. I'm going to meet with them and
we're going to win this deal and we're
going to be like, "Yeah, why don't why
don't you let them put in like 200k?" So
the thing is for when the VC fund is
coming is when you start reducing your
live hours. That'll be the sign.
>> Yeah. And I think I think we we didn't
get into this to start a fund. And I
think there's a lot of people that get
into content because they see it as a
way to do that. And we just love talking
about tech. And
>> actually was the key insight was that
not enough people Well, yeah, it's very
fun, but not but very few people in tech
were actually taking media seriously.
>> Yeah.
>> It it was everyone had a fund. Everyone
that was the high status thing and doing
media was like lower status or people
didn't think it could have as much of a
power law outcome as it very clearly
can. And so this idea of of just what if
you actually took it completely
seriously and just made it the main
thing and
>> so we've had a bunch of people copy our
format you know major legacy media
companies all the way through friends of
ours. Uh it doesn't really bo I mean it
bothers me more than John but but at the
end of the day if you want to spend
>> you're the Tracy by the way.
>> It bothers me too. I totally get it. And
and so it's like we basically know so so
John and I John and I
>> basically hang out for 12 hours a day
and the entire time
>> the entire time we're thinking we're
thinking about the show we're just
talking about the show doesn't look very
different than when we're hanging out
offline.
>> And so I just joke I'm like okay if you
want to compete with us and you're
willing to put a 100 hours a week in
>> go by all means go for it. Like this
probably your life's work but if it's
not
>> good luck
>> it doesn't matter. Yeah,
>> John Kugan, Jordy Hayes, thank you so
much for uh coming on OddLots. That was
a blast. And um and good luck and
looking forward to continue watching uh
TBPM.
>> We'll be live uh from NY later.
>> Oh, nice for the Figma IPO.
>> Figma IPO and Odd Lots in the same day.
>> What a day. What a day. And in the wake
of meta,
>> pinch me.
>> Yes, pinch me. Pinch me.
>> All right.
>> Thank you for having us. Thank you so
much for having us.
[Music]
>> Tracy, that was a lot of fun.
>> It was a little bit media naval gazing.
That's fun.
>> A little bit media naval gazing. I mean,
there is this thing that's happening.
It's been happening in media for a
while.
And of course it happens in Wall Street
but and now happening in AI where you
just have a lot of talented people and
they wonder about the degree to which
they need their existing platform.
they're you know like a star banker can
take a book of business or a star lawyer
can take a book of business and in the
case of AI it's not taking a book of
business right because they don't have
like their individual clients but it's
this knowledge and transport it and it's
instantly worth a lot of money for
someone somewhere else
>> the thing I thought was really
interesting about that discussion was
the emphasis on how capital intensive
all of AI is and so that kind of changes
the the economics of why you're paying
such massive money for someone who's
able to like ek out even a slight
efficiency ends up being massive.
>> This is huge. This was like this it
suddenly is what made it all made sense
to me, right? Because we know about like
how costly one training run is, right?
And we know just the insane numbers for
data center setup, etc. And I'm sure
there's progress being made on the
literal design of like how you string
together uh Nvidia GPUs, etc. And so if
you could get some marginal if you know
have that know how to get some marginal
improvement out of it and this is
fundamentally what was
>> $1 trillion for you but not a trillion
>> no not a trillion yet but like this was
not the case when tech was not so
capital intensive in the 2010s where yes
I'm sure talented people always made a
lot of money and there's always
improvements but where it's so that link
between some sort of efficiency gain and
instant cost savings is so linear and so
straightforward. Yeah, and I take their
point that okay, VCs exist and they're
already investing in some ways in
specific talent. But I do kind of wonder
if you're going to get some sort of like
specialized head hunters at the very
least who are going to like seek out
these big AI talents and try to like
graft themselves onto them.
>> Yeah. Or just uh people whose expertise
is in reading through undersited
undersited AI research papers
>> approach to AI research.
>> Yeah. We can't give you Sam Alman, but
what if we could replace Sam Alman in
the
>> sky has 50 citations in the following
papers. Um, should we leave it there?
>> Let's leave it there.
>> This has been another episode of the Odd
Thoughts podcast. I'm Tracy Aloway. You
can follow me at Tracy Aloway.
>> And I'm Joe Weisenthal. You can follow
me at the stalwart. Follow our guest,
Jordy Hayes. He's at Jordy Hayes and
John Kugan at Johncouan. And check out
TBPN at TBPN. Follow our producers
Carmen Rodriguez at Cararman Arman
Dashelbennet at Dashbot and Kalebrooks
at Kalebrooks. And for more OddLots
content, go to bloomberg.com/odlots.
We have a daily newsletter and all of
our episodes and you can chat about all
of these topics 24/7 in our Discord,
discord.gg/odlots.
>> And if you enjoy OddLots, if you like it
when we talk about the sportification of
AI talent, then please leave us a
positive review on your favorite podcast
platform. And remember, if you are a
Bloomberg subscriber, you can listen to
all of our episodes absolutely adree.
All you need to do is find the Bloomberg
channel on Apple Podcast and follow the
instructions there. Thanks for
listening.
[Music]